[Term Entry] pythonnumpy math.arcsin() (#4766)
Codecademy/docs: content/numpy/concepts/math-methods/terms/arcsin/arcsin.md

---
Title: '.arcsin()'
Description: 'Calculate the inverse sine of each element in an array.'
Subjects: 
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags: 
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Trigonometry'
  - 'NumPy'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
  - 'paths/data-science'
  - 'paths/data-science-foundations'
---

The **'.arcsin()'** method is used to calculate the inverse sine of the elements in an array. It is commonly employed when solving trigonometry problems where an angle of a right sided triangle is unknow, but two of the sides are known. The result should always be in the range -pi/2 to pi/2 (radians).

> Conversion of radians to degrees is done by the formula $r*180/\pi$.

Author: It is valid markdown (according to github), but i'll remove it anyway. It was just a simple way to show the conversion from radians to degrees, but that can just as well be left as an exercise for the reader.

## Syntax

```pseudo
numpy.arcsin(x, out=None, where=True)
```

Parameters:

> - `x`: array
>   - y-coordinate on the unit circle which makes input in the range from -1 to 1.
>   - If input is outside range, then nan is returned as a result.
> - `out` (Optional):
>   - Array for result. If not provided or None, a freshly allocated array is returned.
> - `where` (Optional): array_like
>   - The condition (array of boolean values) that determines the elements on which the method is to be applied.
>   - Output that corresponds to `False` for a particular element will be returned as is.
>   - If not provided, the arcsin is calculated for all elements in the input array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `x`: This is the input array. Elements must be in the range [-1, 1] for valid results. Returns NaN if values are outside this range.
- `out`: This is an optional parameter. It specifies an array to store the result. If not provided or set to None, a new array is created for the result.
- `where`: Condition (array of boolean values) that specifies where the method is applied.
  - If the condition is `True` for an element, the arcsin operation is applied to that element in the input array.
  - If the condition is `False` for an element, the corresponding element in the output array remains unchanged.
  - If not provided, arcsin is calculated for all elements in the input array.
```

Author: This was mostly based on the description for sine in the NumPy documentation, except for not using terms such as ndarray, which required more indepth reading of the documentation.

Accepted change.

> 
> Returns: radian: array

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Really? We don't want to specify what the function returns?

Reviewer: We can specify it in the description 😃

## Example

The below example shows the `.arcsin()` method in use:

```py
# Importing the 'numpy' library as 'np'
import numpy as np

# Defined input array
a_input = [1, 0.5, 0, -0.5, -1]

# Computing the arcsin of all elements in an array
result_all = np.arcsin(a_input)
print("result_all:", result_all)

# Computing the arcsin of specific elements in the array
result_spec = np.arcsin(a_input, where=np.array([True, True, False, True, False]))
print("result_spec:", result_spec)

# Computing the arcsin of all elements greater than 0
result_gt0 = np.arcsin(a_input, where=list(map(lambda x: x>0, a_input)))
print("result_gt0:", result_gt0)

```

The output of the above code is shown below:

```shell
result_all:  [ 1.57079633  0.52359878  0.         -0.52359878 -1.57079633]
result_spec: [ 1.57079633  0.52359878  0.         -0.52359878 -1.        ]
result_gt0: [ 1.57079633  0.52359878  0.         -0.5        -1.        ]

> ```

Reviewer: The outputs I got when I executed the code are different from yours mentioned here. Please check those, and I suppose there is some issue with the code as well; because if the where condition is `False`, it is still computing the inverse sine for that element. So, please recheck the code.

Reviewer: Please also add a ##Codebyte Example block at the end to showcase the user of the `.arcsin()` method, avoid having an output block for it.

Author: Argh... numpy and python doesn't seem to want to do things like I would want them to... Anyway, I've made a more robust example with initializing of result arrays, as it seems that that is the only way to get it to reliably do the expected operation. It also works as a codebyte, but i've added a specific simplified codebyte example as well.

The problem with where seem to be, that numpy seem to cache it's results, which means, that the where clause is actually working, but are not overwriting the previous result values, thus resulting in the output not being as expected if you run it multiple times on the same input. I don't intend to go deeper into debugging that snake nest right now.
